All right, so the third and final piece of
our languages block is talking about CSS
and how do we manage CSS
inside of our view apps.
And so as a whole, the general recommended
best practice is to limit all global
styles to App.vue whenever possible.
And then going forward whenever
you have individual components or
anything that's a .view file, beyond.
After view, we'd recommend scoping it
with either scope styles or CSS modules,
which I'll go over next.
And so here we have a simple component
that's called Myredtext.vue.
And so we have a template here that has
a class red and a normal style block.
And so as you might expect,
everything in here would apply globally.
So if any of the components uses
the .red style or the .bold,
they would automatically
inherit those things.
And so while that's okay at
the app.vue where you sort of,
we all know that that's sort of the global
entry point for our entire application.
As a whole, it's not recommended to do
this because you'll inadvertently end up
with side effects,
especially as people start refactoring and
breaking components up
into smaller pieces.
This is one of the reasons why
we don't recommend doing that.
And instead we'll be going
over the two methodologies,
either stope styles or
CSS modules for your components.
So when it comes to scoped styles, what it
basically allows you to do here is that,
on the style block all we add is
the scoped attribute to style.
What that does for
us inherently is it will automatically
add a data attribute to our HTML element.
And then what we'll see here is that
inside of our style, it will automatically
append that data attribute as a way
to then sort of scope the styles.
And make it more specific to the HTML
elements that are it's being applied to.
Now for those of us who have more
experience with CSS, though,
while this is certainly
a nice technique for
helping to reduce the amount of
overrides that might happen.
When it comes to specificity, it's still
possible for something at a global level
to still override this in the event that
they have something that's more specific.
So whether it's dollars, sort of bank
important are those sort of things it
still doesn't completely
protect us from scope creep.
So instead, what I recommend
is using CSS modules instead.
And so this is something that
a lot of people don't know about.
And so the way CSS modules work
is it's just like scope styles,
in the sense that all we do in order to
make it easy to use CSS modules is you
add that module attribute
onto our style block.
And what that does for us it goes ahead
and what we do is we v bind our class.
This is the weirdest
part about CSS modules.
We v bind it and then we're given this
attribute called dollar symbol style and
then we access our class directly.
And so this might feel a little javascipty
because it is right we're accessing
a style property and
then accessing a property called red.
And so while it took a little getting used
to I think once I show you the benefits
here we're gonna see why
this is really cool.
And so what happens when you use CSS
modules is that you will actually
go in and recompile the CSS class name
into something completely different.
As we can see here on the left hand
side it first starts by prepending it by
default with the component name.
So this is why you see the my red text
you'll do underscore and then whatever CSS
class name you originally have,
which in this case is red.
Then it'll upend some sort of unique hash
on the end of it and so this is really
cool because what you end up getting
is really specific CSS classes that'll
basically never ever have any collision
with any part of your application.
And so, in case you're wondering,
you can customize what's prepended and
attended and those sort of things but
out of the box with no additional work
beyond using the module attribute.
And then, binding the style class,
basically,
get truly scoped CSS that you
don't really have to worry about.
If app.view has a .read class that
dollar sign important doesn't matter,
they will never, ever conflict.
And so personally I recommend when it
comes to styling our components to use CSS
modules, because it's a really
clean way of doing it.
And on top of that, there is even
a bonus to using CSS modules.
There's a technique called CSS modules,
exports,
which anyone who's worked with, the
spectrum is probably familiar with, but
I wasn't even aware of this
until adjusts last week.
And the idea behind this is that
when you use the module attribute,
you can actually export
variables from your CSS.
And use it inside of whether it's your
template or actually, to be honest,
it would work inside of
your script block as well.
Because after all, dollar symbol
style is something that's accessible
now within the JavaScript scope.
So as you can see here, I can actually
render out the actual grid padding.
And so this is really exciting because
what this means is if you have, let's say,
like a SAS design system where you have
different things like sort of like whether
it's column units.
Or things that are standardized, you can
actually export that so that when you need
to dynamically generate something
because sometimes with our view apps.
It doesn't make sense to do inline Styles
over like keeping it in the soil block,
but you can still keep up and have it
stick with your design system without
doing a lot of manual interpolation.
So this is something that's really cool
that I hopefully we'll see a lot more
people using as they use CSS
modules inside of their apps.
>> Question about browser support for
CSS modules.
Do you know if there's polyfills or
support for IE 11?
>> So the question is around
browser support for CSS modules,
from what I understand at least, that
everything that view is doing with CSS
modules is done basically at compile time.
And so there's nothing that I'm
aware of that should be limiting,
because we saw the output is
is still standard CSS classes.
And so in that regard, there shouldn't
be anything that's browser specific for
these things because it's already
been recompiled and renamed.
So as long as you're following standards,
the only browser things that would be
applied to be depending on what properties
you may be using inside of your style.
But it shouldn't have any direct
correlation with the use of CSS modules as
a whole is more of a build methodology
from what I understand rather than like
a browser thing.
So the question here is around
when we're v binding the class and
using things like ternary statements to
determine whether a class should exist.
Sort of there a better
way to do this especially
because the HTML can get
clogged up over time.
So I think the easiest way to do this is.
I'm gonna jump over to VS code and
let's just open,
I'm just gonna open a view file and
let's go ahead and check this out.
So the scenario being presented
here is if we have again our h1 for
example that says hello friend and
masters.
And here we have a v bind class that says,
whether let's say, show element is true,
then we'll have a class that's visible
otherwise for example is hidden.
This is probably the simplest
form of the ternary
statement in a basically our element.
So over time right this can get
complicated as we need to chain different
ones right it might be is visible is bold,
position top,
especially if we're using things
like tailwind for example.
There could be a lot of things
were changing onto here.
And so generally speaking in my
experience, the best way to approach this,
once it's gotten the attorney's
statement is basically
getting fairly complex is to use
a computer property in this case.
And in this case, I might call this one,
like title class names to
be extremely explicit.
And then I would actually go ahead and
do my calculations inside of here and
so, whoops, that wasn't right see, copy.
So then return this and then here,
then we will just have titleClassNames.
So you might be thinking that
like with computed properties,
you lose out on the ability to
see what CSS classes are there.
But when it comes to, sort of deciding
between computer properties versus leaving
it in line, the reason why templates are
useful is because they're declarative, and
basically anyone can read it.
And so, when we have a lot of complex
logic regarding calculating what CSS
classes we want, that's where it's
going to get a little bit tricky.
And so, that's why readability is
ultimately what it boils down to.
So, if it's so complicated that it's
already hard to figure out which goes
where, It's better off just abstracting
that directly to a computer properly.